 Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) Overview

 IaaS is a delivery model that provides organizations 
the ability to outsource or rent equipment used to support IT operations, such as 
servers, networking components, storage, memory and hardware. It is also referred to 
as Hardware as a Service (IaaS).

Characteristics Benefits

Automation

Automation in cloud has to do with day-to-day provisioning activities with tools that 
facilitate, simplify and enable management of the physical environment that provides
 the virtual server resources.
Infrastructure as a service offers automated administration in virtualized environments 
as one of the major challenges of cloud includes administration that can increase 
complexity and generate more management expenditure.


Desktop Virtualization 

Desktop virtualization stores images of each user’s desktop, which consist of 
its own different operating system, application, user profile, data and management 
policies centrally in the provider’s datacenter. 
Virtual desktop infrastructure provides the functionality of a 
traditional desktop but only runs as a virtual machine containing 
functions and unique users settings of a real desktop


Hardware as a Service

There are the key components of an infrastructure as service delivery, whose resources 
are usually rented out to customers. Service providers have this hardware 
set up as grid systems 
within the datacenter in order to provide easier and dynamic scalability.

Utility Computing (Pay As You GO) Resources

Usually set up to bill customers based on consumption of IT resources consumed.
Utility computing is a concept of packing computing resources and measuring them
like traditional meter utility, it is an integral part of Infrastructure as service 
by providing billing plan, relating cost to actual or exact resource usage 
consumed by a customer.

Challenges of Infrastructure as a Service Adoption and Migration

Security, Privacy, Governance and Unified Standards

Security, privacy and lack of governance in cloud have been attracting so many attentions 
from organizations and remain a big concern.

Standards must be set in cloud that governs processes, policies and best practices
to ensure appropriate controls are granted to prevent leak of sensitive data, 
protecting data is a legal requirements in most countries. 
The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) is a major contributor to ensuring of security 
to the highest degree of satisfaction in cloud.

